Adding E2E testing docs (#72)
ZephyrCloudIO/zephyr-documentation: docs/how-to/end-to-end-testing.mdx

# End to End Testing

> Part of the software development lifecycle for many organizations includes the need to do end to end (e2e) testing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Part of the software development lifecycle for many organizations includes the need to do end-to-end (e2e) testing.
```

> This is often done to test for regressions but can also be used to validate that acceptance criteria has been met.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is often done to test for regressions but can also be used to validate that acceptance criteria have been met.
```

# Testing Basic Applications

> The Zephyr build output provides a link to the immutable version that was created and published as part of the build.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Zephyr build output provides a deployed URL to the immutable version that was created and published as part of the build.
```

> If you have not set up an environment that will automatically get this version you can proceed testing this URL itself.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can proceed to test this URL directly. [Check our guide to promote this URL directly under an environment here](/how-to/environments).
```

> We found one of the quickest and easiest ways to do this is to get the output URL.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We found one of the quickest and easiest ways to do this is to get the output URL by adding a script to your CI runner script. 
```

You can leverage the build output directly and using regex find the appropriate output text.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Github Action
```

```yml title=pull_request.yml
run: |
  OUTPUT=$(npm run build)
  echo "$OUTPUT"
  URL=$(echo "$OUTPUT" | grep -oE 'https://[^ ]+')
  HOST=$(echo "$OUTPUT" | grep -oP 'ZEPHYR\s+\K\S+(?=#)')
  echo "Extracted Host Zephyr URL: $URL"
  echo "Extracted Host: $HOST"
  echo "host=$HOST" >> "$GITHUB_OUTPUT"
  echo "url=$URL" >> "$GITHUB_OUTPUT"
```

> The output can then be used as variables in later steps of your pipeline to serve as the base URL for your test.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# The output can then be used as variables in later steps of your pipeline to serve as the base URL for your test.
```

comments should be marked with # in yaml if they copy paste directly

Author: @zmzlois the comment is outside the yml

> ```yml title=pull_request.yml

Reviewer: This ain't pretty.
We probably could come up with some NPX script to read from `.zephyr` cache with app_uid input.

Author: for sure, but until we do this "works". There is a task to make it better that can be addressed.

Reviewer: Got it.
Would it be good then to have something saying that this workaround is temporary or somethin along these lines?

If not, all good, resolve this comment and merge.

env:
  REMOTE_URL: ${{ steps.buildRemote.outputs.remoteUrl }}
  REMOTE: ${{ steps.buildRemote.outputs.remote }}
```

# Testing Federated Applications
Testing federated applications is typically a bit more challenging, however with Zephyr this is a fairly trivial task.

Because of how the Zephyr workers resolve the federated remotes we have the ability to modify our session and have the worker give us different versions of the application.

This means in your e2e testing suite you can update the browser session storage to update the remotes.
In the puppeteer example below we take the output values of the remote name as well as the remoteURL and set them on the session storage.
After refreshing the page the remote will be swapped with the version on the session.

```typescript title=puppeteer-test.ts
const remote = process.env.REMOTE;
const remoteUrl = process.env.REMOTE_URL;

await page.evaluate((remote, url) => {
    sessionStorage.setItem(remote, url);
  }, remote, remoteUrl
);
```

## Testing in production

> If I wanted to test a new remote in production I would perform the following in my testing suite.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want to test a new remote in production you can perform the following in my testing suite.
```

1. Go to the production url
1. Update the session storage to set the remote and url that I want to replace.
1. Refresh the page

> 1. Perform the test

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Perform the test
```
